README.md, before:

# Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Tool

## Table of Contents

- [Author](#Author)
- [Last Updates](#last-updates)
- [Adapter Pattern](#adapter-pattern)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [How does it work?](#how-does-it-work)

## Author
Pedro Henrique Vieira Giló (phvg@ic.ufal.br)

## Last Updates
* Contact Management: Storing and managing customer contact information;
* Sales Pipeline Management: Managing the stages of the sales process;
* Reporting and Analytics: Providing sales reports and customer analytics;
* Activity Tracking: Tracking interactions with customers, such as calls and meetings;
* Document Storage and Management: Storing and managing sales and marketing documents;
* Email Integration and Campaign Management: Managing email communications and marketing campaigns;
* Task and Appointment Scheduling: Organizing tasks and appointments with customers;
* Customizable Dashboards: Offering customizable dashboards for different user roles;
* Lead Generation and Tracking: Tracking potential leads and their progress;
* **Mobile Access and Integration: This functionality cannot be developed in the first stage of the project**

## Adapter Pattern
The Adapter design pattern is a structural pattern that allows the interface of an existing class to be used as another interface. It acts as a bridge between two incompatible interfaces, making them work together. This pattern involves a single class, known as the adapter, which is responsible for joining functionalities of independent or incompatible interfaces.

![img6](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img6.webp)

# Usage

## Project Setup and Execution Guide

### To run the application using java

Open the terminal and type:

```bash
java -cp "ClientConnect.jar;lib\gson-2.8.2.jar;lib\itextpdf-5.5.9.jar" application.Main
```

Or run it on Windows CMD using the run.bat script:

```bash
run.bat
```

### Compile The Code

Open a terminal, navigate to your project directory, and compile your code:

```bash
javac -d out -cp "lib\gson-2.8.2.jar;lib\itextpdf-5.5.9.jar" application\Main.java utilities\*.java adapter\*.java userInterface\*.java dataInterface\*.java application\*.java
jar -cvfe ClientConnect.jar application.Main -C out .
```
Or compile it on windows CMD using the install.bat script:

```bash
install.bat
```

Good user for tests:

mail: pedro@mail.com
password: 123

# How does it work?

The project incorporates two design patterns to enhance its functionality: the adapter and the state pattern. The adapter pattern is employed to modularize the application, rendering it independent of the interfaces used for user interaction. This strategic design allows for the prospective implementation of mobile functionality without requiring alterations to the primary application. In contrast, the state pattern is used to streamline the augmentation of code functionalities through a unified menu interface. This approach facilitates the seamless implementation of new screens within the framework of a finite state machine.

![General Diagram](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/general.jpg)

![Fsm diagram](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/fsm.jpg)

## Screens and options:

![img0](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img0.jpg)

![img1](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img1.jpg)

![img2](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img2.jpg)

![img3](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img3.jpg)

![img4](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img4.jpg)

![img5](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img5.jpg)

Commit message:

Adiciona State Pattern ao README.md

README.md, after:

# Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Tool

## Table of Contents

- [Author](#Author)
- [Last Updates](#last-updates)
- [Adapter Pattern](#adapter-pattern)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [How does it work?](#how-does-it-work)

## Author
Pedro Henrique Vieira Giló (phvg@ic.ufal.br)

## Last Updates
* Contact Management: Storing and managing customer contact information;
* Sales Pipeline Management: Managing the stages of the sales process;
* Reporting and Analytics: Providing sales reports and customer analytics;
* Activity Tracking: Tracking interactions with customers, such as calls and meetings;
* Document Storage and Management: Storing and managing sales and marketing documents;
* Email Integration and Campaign Management: Managing email communications and marketing campaigns;
* Task and Appointment Scheduling: Organizing tasks and appointments with customers;
* Customizable Dashboards: Offering customizable dashboards for different user roles;
* Lead Generation and Tracking: Tracking potential leads and their progress;
* **Mobile Access and Integration: This functionality cannot be developed in the first stage of the project**

## Adapter Pattern
The Adapter design pattern is a structural pattern that allows the interface of an existing class to be used as another interface. It acts as a bridge between two incompatible interfaces, making them work together. This pattern involves a single class, known as the adapter, which is responsible for joining functionalities of independent or incompatible interfaces.

![img6](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img6.webp)

## State Pattern
The State design pattern is a behavioral software design pattern that allows an object to alter its behavior when its internal state changes. It achieves this by encapsulating the object’s behavior within different state objects, and the object itself dynamically switches between these state objects depending on its current state.

![img7](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img7.png)

# Usage

## Project Setup and Execution Guide

### To run the application using java

Open the terminal and type:

```bash
java -cp "ClientConnect.jar;lib\gson-2.8.2.jar;lib\itextpdf-5.5.9.jar" application.Main
```

Or run it on Windows CMD using the run.bat script:

```bash
run.bat
```

### Compile The Code

Open a terminal, navigate to your project directory, and compile your code:

```bash
javac -d out -cp "lib\gson-2.8.2.jar;lib\itextpdf-5.5.9.jar" application\Main.java utilities\*.java adapter\*.java userInterface\*.java dataInterface\*.java application\*.java
jar -cvfe ClientConnect.jar application.Main -C out .
```
Or compile it on windows CMD using the install.bat script:

```bash
install.bat
```

Good user for tests:

mail: pedro@mail.com
password: 123

# How does it work?

The project incorporates two design patterns to enhance its functionality: the adapter and the state pattern. The adapter pattern is employed to modularize the application, rendering it independent of the interfaces used for user interaction. This strategic design allows for the prospective implementation of mobile functionality without requiring alterations to the primary application. In contrast, the state pattern is used to streamline the augmentation of code functionalities through a unified menu interface. This approach facilitates the seamless implementation of new screens within the framework of a finite state machine.

![General Diagram](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/general.jpg)

![Fsm diagram](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/fsm.jpg)

## Screens and options:

![img0](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img0.jpg)

![img1](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img1.jpg)

![img2](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img2.jpg)

![img3](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img3.jpg)

![img4](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img4.jpg)

![img5](https://github.com/PedroGilo12/Customer-Relationship-Management-CRM-Tool-DesignPattern/blob/main/img/img5.jpg)
